
What you mentioned about RunLibrary’s entries array, and disconnect and refresh is all true, so put it on your lists of todos. But I have two big concerns… One of them is the architecture of how the “data is flowing” in the app. It’s hard to tell what is the source of truth. We have a standalone VisualisationModel that keeps track of the currently selected visualisation for the Visualiser. We have a Player that has its own stored Transformers, Interpolators and the run. The we have a RunRecord that has all of these optionally and now we don’t know if the run should inherit the visualisation from the visualiser and the transformers and interpolator from the player, or the other way around. And it’s a fair confusion because both of them is true… if the run has these settings already then everything else needs to read it from the run. And since all these different settings are accessible in different view of different parts of the app it’s easy for us to access them via the PlayerState and LibraryState accessors. And probably because of all this unstructured data flow the Library has to do so much maintenance manually that should be working out of the box. A very good code smell for this is the PlayRunButton… it has an `onPlayed` callback which is only used to manually persist the current configuration through the Library. Wheres in an idiomatic SwiftData world when a property of a RunRecord (e.g. the run’s visualisations’ adjustable property) changes, the context registers the change and saves it automatically… No need for manual updates and overrides in library. In fact the library doesn’t necessarily need to no about visualisation and transformers and stuff.

I actually don’t think our project code is very bad per se, but when I think about this aspect it feels like a bit of a spagetti code and it frightens me to think about the future, and how many complications it will cause if we can’t define a proper flow of data and source of truth. I’m afraid that it’s gonna make any future addition or maintenance really difficult, so we should tackle it before it’s too late.

The second concern is the increasing responsibilities of the ContentView… it does a lot, fetching and persisting runs from the bundle, restores last played runs, restores configs. This feels like an AppModel kinda thing that knows about certain app states and maybe even about the navigation state. I wanted to wait with this topic after we complete our roadmap, but I feel like everything I talked about earlier might affect decisions here or this could affect that so I just wanted to mention this to keep in mind while we design something for the first concern.

So going back to the first concern I do think our separation is roughly good: Visualiser only cares about a visualisation, its adjustments and the data fro the frame it needs to display, I also think the player doesn’t necessarily need to no about the visualisation, and I also think Library shouldn’t have to do anything with the visualisation or with player, it just handles the list of runs. But I do feel like the RunRecord could/should be our source of truth. Maybe not in its current form, but what I imagine is that somehow the player accesses the transformers and interpolator of the run, the visualiser also gets the visualisation from the currently selected run. So basically when we open the customisation panel everything that’s there is just the RunRecord’s content and when we adjust things there is directly updates the RunRecord. That doesn’t mean I want to have a RunRecord property in these views directly, just the minimal necessary things like the Binding for the transformers, Binding for the Visualisation etc… 

I’m not yet sure how to achieve this but perhaps we can do something similar to the `PlayableMusicItem` of Apple’s MusicKit, see the reference here: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/musickit/playablemusicitem and deep dive into this MusicKit documentation.

Perhaps we could also create a protocol of `PlayableItem` that basically has two properties `data` that is the data currently the player is processing and “playing” and a `parameters` that contains the transformers, interpolators and visualisation. There are so many traps with this though: first of all where do we define this protocol? Because it seems like a RunPlayer related type… but it also has a visualisation that has almost nothing to do with the player and the player shouldn’t even see or access the visualisation property, and this true for the visualiser it shouldn’t see the transformers or interpolator. So it seems like we need to define this in the App (or more specifically where the RunRecord is) and then we bridge this type back to the Visualiser and Player somehow, so we can have convenience Actions like “PlayPlayableItemAction” (what a terrible name) that under the hood sets the run of the player, sets the transformer of the player and sets the interpolator of the player, and sets the visualisation of the Visualiser… (It seems like we might need to follow the Player and Library implementation pattern for the visualiser model as well). And we can basically make the interpolator and transformers state of the player private, because now when we open the customisation panel it would show everything from the selected run (except the progress, that’s from the player). The last bit of discrepancy here is that the Player’s currently playing item and the Run that is selected should be always the same, the question is how we guarantee it? Perhaps the Player should indeed “play a runrecord” so it has the reference for the exact run… Feels like I’m going in circles, but I think I gave you enough to explore, so explore give me ideas!!
